 Machine learning is a subfield of computer science that evolved from the study of pattern recognition and computational learning theory in artificial intelligence.  Machine learning explores the construction and study of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data.  Such algorithms operate by building a model from example inputs in order to make data-driven predictions or decisions, : 2 rather than following strictly static program instructions. 
 Machine learning is closely related to and often overlaps with computational statistics; a discipline that also specializes in prediction-making.  It has strong ties to mathematical optimization, which deliver methods, theory and application domains to the field.  Machine learning is employed in a range of computing tasks where designing and programming explicit, rule-based algorithms is infeasible.  Example applications include spam filtering, optical character recognition (OCR), search engines and computer vision.  Machine learning is sometimes conflated with data mining, although that focuses more on exploratory data analysis.  Machine learning and pattern recognition "can be viewed as two facets of the same field. " : vii. 
 When employed in industrial contexts, machine learning methods may be referred to as predictive analytics or predictive modelling. 
 In 1959, Arthur Samuel defined machine learning as a "Field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed". 
 Mitchell provided a widely quoted, more formal definition: "A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E".  This definition is notable for its defining machine learning in fundamentally operational rather than cognitive terms, thus following Alan Turing's proposal in his paper "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" that the question "Can machines think? 
 Machine learning tasks are typically classified into three broad categories, depending on the nature of the learning "signal" or "feedback" available to a learning system. 
 Between supervised and unsupervised learning is semi-supervised learning, where the teacher gives an incomplete training signal: a training set with some (often many) of the target outputs missing.  Transduction is a special case of this principle where the entire set of problem instances is known at learning time, except that part of the targets are missing. 
 Among other categories of machine learning problems, learning to learn learns its own inductive bias based on previous experience.  Developmental learning, elaborated for robot learning, generates its own sequences (also called curriculum) of learning situations to cumulatively acquire repertoires of novel skills through autonomous self-exploration and social interaction with human teachers, and using guidance mechanisms such as active learning, maturation, motor synergies, and imitation. 
 Another categorization of machine learning tasks arises when one considers the desired output of a machine-learned system: : 3. 
 As a scientific endeavour, machine learning grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence.  Already in the early days of AI as an academic discipline, some researchers were interested in having machines learn from data.  They attempted to approach the problem with various symbolic methods, as well as what were then termed "neural networks"; these were mostly perceptrons and other models that were later found to be reinventions of the generalized linear models of statistics. 
 However, an increasing emphasis on the logical, knowledge-based approach caused a rift between AI and machine learning.  Probabilistic systems were plagued by theoretical and practical problems of data acquisition and representation. : 488 By 1980, expert systems had come to dominate AI, and statistics was out of favor.  Work on symbolic/knowledge-based learning did continue within AI, leading to inductive logic programming, but the more statistical line of research was now outside the field of AI proper, in pattern recognition and information retrieval. : 708–710; 755 Neural networks research had been abandoned by AI and computer science around the same time.  This line, too, was continued outside the AI/CS field, as "connectionism", by researchers from other disciplines including Hopfield, Rumelhart and Hinton.  Their main success came in the mid-1980s with the reinvention of backpropagation. : 25. 
 Machine learning, reorganized as a separate field, started to flourish in the 1990s.  It shifted focus away from the symbolic approaches it had inherited from AI, and toward methods and models borrowed from statistics and probability theory.  It also benefited from the increasing availability of digitized information, and the possibility to distribute that via the internet. 
 Machine learning and data mining often employ the same methods and overlap significantly. 
 The two areas overlap in many ways: data mining uses many machine learning methods, but often with a slightly different goal in mind.  On the other hand, machine learning also employs data mining methods as "unsupervised learning" or as a preprocessing step to improve learner accuracy.  Much of the confusion between these two research communities (which do often have separate conferences and separate journals, ECML PKDD being a major exception) comes from the basic assumptions they work with: in machine learning, performance is usually evaluated with respect to the ability to reproduce known knowledge, while in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) the key task is the discovery of previously unknown knowledge.  Evaluated with respect to known knowledge, an uninformed (unsupervised) method will easily be outperformed by supervised methods, while in a typical KDD task, supervised methods cannot be used due to the unavailability of training data. 
 Machine learning also has intimate ties to optimization: many learning problems are formulated as minimization of some loss function on a training set of examples.  Loss functions express the discrepancy between the predictions of the model being trained and the actual problem instances (for example, in classification, one wants to assign a label to instances, and models are trained to correctly predict the pre-assigned labels of a set examples).  The difference between the two fields arises from the goal of generalization: while optimization algorithms can minimize the loss on a training set, machine learning is concerned with minimizing the loss on unseen samples. 
 Machine learning and statistics are closely related fields.  Jordan, the ideas of machine learning, from methodological principles to theoretical tools, have had a long pre-history in statistics.  He also suggested the term data science as a placeholder to call the overall field. 
 Leo Breiman distinguished two statistical modelling paradigms: data model and algorithmic model, wherein 'algorithmic model' means more or less the machine learning algorithms like Random forest. 
 Some statisticians have adopted methods from machine learning, leading to a combined field that they call statistical learning. 
 [full citation needed] Generalization in this context is the ability of a learning machine to perform accurately on new, unseen examples/tasks after having experienced a learning data set.  The training examples come from some generally unknown probability distribution (considered representative of the space of occurrences) and the learner has to build a general model about this space that enables it to produce sufficiently accurate predictions in new cases. 
 The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory.  Because training sets are finite and the future is uncertain, learning theory usually does not yield guarantees of the performance of algorithms. 
 In addition to performance bounds, computational learning theorists study the time complexity and feasibility of learning.  In computational learning theory, a computation is considered feasible if it can be done in polynomial time.  Positive results show that a certain class of functions can be learned in polynomial time.  Negative results show that certain classes cannot be learned in polynomial time. 
 There are many similarities between machine learning theory and statistical inference, although they use different terms. 
 Decision tree learning uses a decision tree as a predictive model, which maps observations about an item to conclusions about the item's target value. 
 Association rule learning is a method for discovering interesting relations between variables in large databases. 
 An artificial neural network (ANN) learning algorithm, usually called "neural network" (NN), is a learning algorithm that is inspired by the structure and functional aspects of biological neural networks.  Modern neural networks are non-linear statistical data modeling tools.  They are usually used to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs, to find patterns in data, or to capture the statistical structure in an unknown joint probability distribution between observed variables. 
 Inductive logic programming (ILP) is an approach to rule learning using logic programming as a uniform representation for input examples, background knowledge, and hypotheses.  Given an encoding of the known background knowledge and a set of examples represented as a logical database of facts, an ILP system will derive a hypothesized logic program that entails all positive and no negative examples.  Inductive programming is a related field that considers any kind of programming languages for representing hypotheses (and not only logic programming), such as functional programs. 
 Support vector machines (SVMs) are a set of related supervised learning methods used for classification and regression.  Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that predicts whether a new example falls into one category or the other. 
 Cluster analysis is the assignment of a set of observations into subsets (called clusters) so that observations within the same cluster are similar according to some predesignated criterion or criteria, while observations drawn from different clusters are dissimilar.  Different clustering techniques make different assumptions on the structure of the data, often defined by some similarity metric and evaluated for example by internal compactness (similarity between members of the same cluster) and separation between different clusters.  Clustering is a method of unsupervised learning, and a common technique for statistical data analysis. 
 A Bayesian network, belief network or directed acyclic graphical model is a probabilistic graphical model that represents a set of random variables and their conditional independencies via a directed acyclic graph (DAG).  For example, a Bayesian network could represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms.  Given symptoms, the network can be used to compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases.  Efficient algorithms exist that perform inference and learning. 
 Reinforcement learning is concerned with how an agent ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of long-term reward.  Reinforcement learning algorithms attempt to find a policy that maps states of the world to the actions the agent ought to take in those states.  Reinforcement learning differs from the supervised learning problem in that correct input/output pairs are never presented, nor sub-optimal actions explicitly corrected. 
 Several learning algorithms, mostly unsupervised learning algorithms, aim at discovering better representations of the inputs provided during training.  Classical examples include principal components analysis and cluster analysis.  Representation learning algorithms often attempt to preserve the information in their input but transform it in a way that makes it useful, often as a pre-processing step before performing classification or predictions, allowing to reconstruct the inputs coming from the unknown data generating distribution, while not being necessarily faithful for configurations that are implausible under that distribution. 
 Manifold learning algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is low-dimensional.  Sparse coding algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is sparse (has many zeros).  Multilinear subspace learning algorithms aim to learn low-dimensional representations directly from tensor representations for multidimensional data, without reshaping them into (high-dimensional) vectors.  Deep learning algorithms discover multiple levels of representation, or a hierarchy of features, with higher-level, more abstract features defined in terms of (or generating) lower-level features.  It has been argued that an intelligent machine is one that learns a representation that disentangles the underlying factors of variation that explain the observed data. 
 In this problem, the learning machine is given pairs of examples that are considered similar and pairs of less similar objects.  It then needs to learn a similarity function (or a distance metric function) that can predict if new objects are similar. 
 In this method, a datum is represented as a linear combination of basis functions, and the coefficients are assumed to be sparse.  Let x be a d-dimensional datum, D be a d by n matrix, where each column of D represents a basis function. r is the coefficient to represent x using D.  Mathematically, sparse dictionary learning means the following where r is sparse.  Generally speaking, n is assumed to be larger than d to allow the freedom for a sparse representation. 
 A popular heuristic method for sparse dictionary learning is K-SVD. 
 Sparse dictionary learning has been applied in several contexts.  In classification, the problem is to determine which classes a previously unseen datum belongs to.  Suppose a dictionary for each class has already been built.  Then a new datum is associated with the class such that it's best sparsely represented by the corresponding dictionary.  Sparse dictionary learning has also been applied in image de-noising.  The key idea is that a clean image patch can be sparsely represented by an image dictionary, but the noise cannot. 
 A genetic algorithm (GA) is a search heuristic that mimics the process of natural selection, and uses methods such as mutation and crossover to generate new genotype in the hope of finding good solutions to a given problem.  In machine learning, genetic algorithms found some uses in the 1980s and 1990s.  Vice versa, machine learning techniques have been used to improve the performance of genetic and evolutionary algorithms. 
 In 2006, the online movie company Netflix held the first "Netflix Prize" competition to find a program to better predict user preferences and improve the accuracy on its existing Cinematch movie recommendation algorithm by at least 10%.  A joint team made up of researchers from AT&T Labs-Research in collaboration with the teams Big Chaos and Pragmatic Theory built an ensemble model to win the Grand Prize in 2009 for $1 million.  Shortly after the prize was awarded, Netflix realized that viewers' ratings were not the best indicators of their viewing patterns ("everything is a recommendation") and they changed their recommendation engine accordingly. 
 In 2010 The Wall Street Journal wrote about money management firm Rebellion Research's use of machine learning to predict economic movements.  The article describes Rebellion Research's prediction of the financial crisis and economic recovery. 
 In 2014 it has been reported that a machine learning algorithm has been applied in Art History to study fine art paintings, and that it may have revealed previously unrecognized influences between artists. 
 Software suites containing a variety of machine learning algorithms include the following:. 
 If you are enrolled in 229 at Stanford (i. e. you're a Stanford student or SCPD student) and have a question, for you to get a response quickly we strongly encourage you to post it on our Piazza forum. 
 Machine learning is the science of getting computers to act without being explicitly programmed.  In the past decade, machine learning has given us self-driving cars, practical speech recognition, effective web search, and a vastly improved understanding of the human genome.  Machine learning is so pervasive today that you probably use it dozens of times a day without knowing it.  Many researchers also think it is the best way to make progress towards human-level AI.  In this class, you will learn about the most effective machine learning techniques, and gain practice implementing them and getting them to work for yourself.  More importantly, you'll learn about not only the theoretical underpinnings of learning, but also gain the practical know-how needed to quickly and powerfully apply these techniques to new problems.  Finally, you'll learn about some of Silicon Valley's best practices in innovation as it pertains to machine learning and AI. 
 This course provides a broad introduction to machine learning, datamining, and statistical pattern recognition.  Topics include: (i) Supervised learning (parametric/non-parametric algorithms, support vector machines, kernels, neural networks).  (ii) Unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction, recommender systems, deep learning).  (iii) Best practices in machine learning (bias/variance theory; innovation process in machine learning and AI).  The course will also draw from numerous case studies and applications, so that you'll also learn how to apply learning algorithms to building smart robots (perception, control), text understanding (web search, anti-spam), computer vision, medical informatics, audio, database mining, and other areas. 
 The class will consist of lecture videos, which are broken into small chunks, usually between eight and twelve minutes each.  There will also be standalone quizzes that are not part of video lectures, and programming assignments. 
 The course includes programming assignments and some programming background will be helpful. 
 Students who successfully complete the class will receive a statement of accomplishment signed by the instructor. 
 Professor Andrew Ng is Director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab, the main AI research organization at Stanford, with 20 professors and about 150 students/post docs.  At Stanford, he teaches Machine Learning, which with a typical enrollment of 350 Stanford students, is among the most popular classes on campus.  His research is primarily on machine learning, artificial intelligence, and robotics, and most universities doing robotics research now do so using a software platform (ROS) from his group. 
 IBM is putting considerable resources behind Apache Software Foundation’s Spark to ready the platform for machine learning duties such as pattern recognition and object classification. 
 The company plans to offer Spark as a service, and has devoted 3, 500 researchers and developers to help in its upkeep and further development. 
 It is also contributing some of its own software to the Apache project, namely SystemML, a programming language for machine learning tasks, and will work with Databricks, the company that has largely shepherded the development of Spark to date.  In machine learning, computer systems can refine their performance on given tasks as they acquire new information. 
 “Spark represents for us a whole new way of working with data, ” said Joel Horowitz, director of marketing for IBM analytics.  “It is a very powerful in-memory compute engine with a very easy-to-use interface for data scientists and developers. ”. 
 Spark, which many view as a successor to the Hadoop big data processing platform, is well suited for machine learning tasks, which typically require large clusters of computers to execute. 
 The latest version of the platform released last week extends it to run machine-learning algorithms. 
 “Machine learning is a very powerful technique of extracting the essence of value from data, ” Horowitz said.  Machine learning algorithms are especially good at tasks such as automated classification and helping devices sense their surroundings with greater sophistication, he said.  Such tasks were previously considered to be too compute-intensive to be carried out on a single server. 
 IBM already offers a number of platform services based on machine learning algorithms, such as language translation and data visualization.  The Spark service, which will be available by the end of this month, will allow developers to build and run their own machine learning algorithms, Horowitz said. 
 Spark will be available on the IBM Bluemix, a set of platform services for developers.  The Spark service will provide an easy way to load data, examine the data, and pass the results back to another application, all without the work of setting up the supporting infrastructure. 
 In the past year, the Spark has grown in popularity, as more organizations have incorporated big-data-level analysis into their operations.  Companies such as eBay, NASA, Opentable and Yahoo have all used Spark to make sense of large collections of data.  About 17 percent of 3, 000 Java professionals noted that they were running Spark in their operations, according to a December 2014 survey conducted by Java tool provider TypeSafe. 
 Joab Jackson covers enterprise software and general technology breaking news for the IDG News Service, and is based in New York. 
 PCWorld helps you navigate the PC ecosystem to find the products you want and the advice you need to get the job done. 
 Machine Learning is a first-class ticket to the most exciting careers in data analysis today.  As data sources proliferate along with the computing power to process them, going straight to the data is one of the most straightforward ways to quickly gain insights and make predictions. 
 Machine learning brings together computer science and statistics to harness that predictive power.  It’s a must-have skill for all aspiring data analysts and data scientists, or anyone else who wants to wrestle all that raw data into refined trends and predictions. 
 This is a class that will teach you the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens.  It will teach you how to extract and identify useful features that best represent your data, a few of the most important machine learning algorithms, and how to evaluate the performance of your machine learning algorithms. 
 In this course, you’ll learn by doing!  We’ll bring machine learning to life by showing you fascinating use cases and tackling interesting real-world problems like self-driving cars.  For your final project you’ll mine the email inboxes and financial data of Enron to identify persons of interest in one of the greatest corporate fraud cases in American history. 
 When you finish this introductory course, you’ll be able to analyze data using machine learning techniques, and you’ll also be prepared to take our Data Analyst Nanodegree.  We’ll get you started on your machine learning journey by teaching you how to use helpful tools, such as pre-written algorithms and libraries, to answer interesting questions. 
 To succeed in this course, you must be proficient at programming in Python and basic statistics. 
 Intro to Computer Science (You should know basic data structures and control statements, and be able to write and import functions. ). 
 One additional course that would be nice to have is Intro to Data Science, as this will get you familiar with scientific problem-solving.  We will also use a tiny bit of git, which you can also learn about on Udacity. 
 One thing that we don’t require is previous exposure to machine learning.  If you’re a machine learning beginner, you’re in the right place. 
 You’ll learn how to start with a question and/or a dataset, and use machine learning to turn them into insights. 
 Naive Bayes: We jump in headfirst, learning perhaps the world’s greatest algorithm for classifying text. 
 Support Vector Machines (SVMs): One of the top 10 algorithms in machine learning, and a must-try for many classification tasks.  The ability to generate new features independently and on the fly. 
 Behind any great machine learning project is a great dataset that the algorithm can learn from.  We were inspired by a treasure trove of email and financial data from the Enron corporation, which would normally be strictly confidential but became public when the company went bankrupt in a blizzard of fraud.  Follow our lead as we wrestle this dataset into a machine-learning-ready format, in anticipation of trying to predict cases of fraud. 
 Regressions are some of the most widely used machine learning algorithms, and rightly share prominence with classification.  What’s a fast way to make mistakes in regression, though?  Have troublesome outliers in your data.  We’ll tackle how to identify and clean away those pesky data points. 
 K-Means Clustering: The flagship algorithm when you don’t have labeled data to work with, and a quick method for pattern-searching when approaching a dataset for the first time. 
 Feature Creation: Taking your human intuition about the world and turning it into data that a computer can use. 
 Feature Selection: Einstein said it best: make everything as simple as possible, and no simpler.  In this case, that means identifying the most important features of your data. 
 Principal Component Analysis: A more sophisticated take on feature selection, and one of the crown jewels of unsupervised learning. 
 Feature Scaling: Simple tricks for making sure your data and your algorithm play nicely together.  Learning from Text: More information is in text than any other format, and there are some effective but simple tools for extracting that information. 
 Training/testing data split: How do you know that what you’re doing is working?  The train-test split is simple to do, and the gold standard for understanding your results. 
 Cross-validation: Take the training/testing split and put it on steroids.  Validate your machine learning results like a pro. 
 Precision, recall, and F1 score: After all this data-driven work, quantify your results with metrics tailored to what is most important to you. 
 Final project: searching for signs of corporate fraud in Enron data. 
 He is Research Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the German Academy of Sciences.  Thrun is best known for his research in robotics, artificial intelligence and machine learning. 
 An experimental physicist by training, Katie first got interested in machine learning by using it to search for new particles like the Higgs boson.  Since nobody should need a PhD in physics to play around with machine learning, though, she leapt at the chance to teach others about using data analysis to solve interesting problems. 
 Machine learning is a type of artificial intelligence (AI) that provides computers with the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.  Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can teach themselves to grow and change when exposed to new data.  . 
 The process of machine learning is similar to that of data mining.  Both systems search through data to look for patterns.  However, instead of extracting data for human comprehension -- as is the case in data mining applications -- machine learning uses that data to improve the program's own understanding.  Machine learning programs detect patterns in data and adjust program actions accordingly.  .  If a user frequently tags a friend in photos, writes on his wall or "likes" his links, the News Feed will show more of that friend's activity in the user's News Feed due to presumed closeness. 
 See also: fuzzy logic, machine-to-machine, decision support system, neural network, anthropomorphism. 
 The difference between machine learning and statistics in data mining  . 
 Fielded applications of data mining and machine learning. 
 - In computers designed for English language users, alphanumeric (sometimes seen as alphameric) characters are those comprised by the combined set of the 26 alphabetic characters, A to Z, and the 10 . . . 
 - MATLAB is a fourth-generation programming language and numerical analysis environment used for matrix calculations, developing and running algorithms, creating user interfaces (UI) and data visuali. . . 
 - A race condition occurs when a device or system makes an attempt to perform two or more operations at the same time, but not in the proper sequence. 
 - Terms related to software programming, including definitions about programming languages and words and phrases about software design, coding, testing and debugging. 
 - This WhatIs. com glossary contains terms related to Internet applications, including definitions about Software as a Service (SaaS) delivery models and words and phrases about web sites, e-commerce . . . 
 By switching development you would put all of your knowledge and experience to waste.  . 
 BYOE (bring your own encryption) is a cloud computing security model that allows cloud service customers to use their own encryption software and . . . 
 A virtual private network (VPN) is a technology that creates an encrypted connection over a less secure network.  Using a VPN ensures the appropriate level of security to the connected systems when the underlying network infrastructure alone cannot provide it.  The most common types of VPNs are remote-access VPNs and site-to-site VPNs. 
 A managed service provider (MSP) is a company that remotely manages a customer's IT infrastructure. 
 The OSPF router protocol is used to find the best path for packets as they pass through a set of connected networks.  OSPF is one of several Interior Gateway Protocols that replaces the Routing Information Protocol (RIP), an older routing protocol that is installed in many of today's corporate networks. 
 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a markup standard created by Health Level 7 International (HL7) that defines the structure of discharge summaries, progress notes and other medical records. 
 A RIS is the traditional core software system for electronically managing medical images, scheduling and billing in hospital radiology departments and physician practices. 
 Multiplexing is the simultaneous sending of multiple information streams over a communications medium as a single, complex signal that is then recovered at the receiving end. 
 Ethernet is the most commonly used local area network technology deployed with transmission speeds heading upwards into the gigabits range. 
 An application delivery controller (ADC) is a network device that manages client connections to complex Web and enterprise applications.  In general, a controller is a hardware device or a software program that manages or directs the flow of data between two entities. 
 An important goal of storage resource management is to make it easier for storage administrators to reclaim unused storage. 
 Linear Tape-Open (LTO) is a high-capacity tape storage technology that is open format, giving users access to compatible products from many suppliers. 
 Microsoft Exchange Server 2016 is the latest iteration of the Exchange Server messaging platform. 
 Remote Access is a server role in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2 and offers administrators a central point for administering, configuring and monitoring factors related to network access. 
 UDP (User Datagram Protocol) offers unreliable transmission of datagrams over a network that uses the Internet Protocol (IP). 
 XSD is a W3C recommendation that defines the way to utilize the elements in an XML document. 
 A microservice is a form of application development in which the application is built as a suite of services. 
 The chief information officer (CIO) in an organization is the person in charge of formulating an information technology strategy and overseeing the computer systems and services that support day-to-day operations.  Since the CIO position was established in the mid-1980s, it has evolved from largely a technical role to one increasingly focused on business strategy. 
 Innovation process management (IPM) refers to the techniques and tools used by organizations to spur and maintain innovation. 
 PPM (project and portfolio management) is a methodology used to prioritize IT projects based on cost, benefits and use of resources to achieve business goals. 
 The USA Patriot Act is a law enacted in 2001, granting controversial new and extended data-collection abilities to the Department of Justice in an effort to combat terrorism after the September 11 attacks. 
 A Hadoop data lake is a data management platform comprising one or more Hadoop clusters used principally to process and store non-relational data prior to use by analytical or other applications. 
 HIPAA compliance is the act of being in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which set guidelines mandating secure electronic access to patient data. 
 Amazon Machine Learning is a service that makes it easy for developers of all skill levels to use machine learning technology.  Amazon Machine Learning provides visualization tools and wizards that guide you through the process of creating machine learning (ML) models without having to learn complex ML algorithms and technology.  Once your models are ready, Amazon Machine Learning makes it easy to obtain predictions for your application using simple APIs, without having to implement custom prediction generation code, or manage any infrastructure. 
 Amazon Machine Learning is based on the same proven, highly scalable, ML technology used for years by Amazon’s internal data scientist community.  The service uses powerful algorithms to create ML models by finding patterns in your existing data.  Then, Amazon Machine Learning uses these models to process new data and generate predictions for your application. 
 Amazon Machine Learning is highly scalable and can generate billions of predictions daily, and serve those predictions in real-time and at high throughput.  With Amazon Machine Learning, there is no upfront hardware or software investment, and you pay as you go, so you can start small and scale as your application grows. 
 Receive twelve months of access to the AWS Free Tier and enjoy AWS Basic Support features including, 24x7x365 customer service, support forums, and more. 
 Building a Binary Classification Model with Amazon Machine Learning and Amazon Redshift. 
 Learn how to build a regression model with Amazon Machine Learning using a publicly-available dataset in Kaggle. 
 Amazon Machine Learning APIs and wizards make it easy for any developer to create and fine-tune ML models from data stored in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Redshift, or MySQL databases in Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), and query these models for predictions.  The service’s built-in data processors, scalable ML algorithms, interactive data and model visualization tools, and quality alerts help you build and refine your models quickly. 
 Amazon Machine Learning is a managed service that provides end-to-end model creation, deployment, and monitoring.  Once your model is ready, you can quickly and reliably generate predictions for your applications, eliminating the time and investment needed to build, scale, and maintain machine learning infrastructure. 
 Amazon Machine Learning prediction APIs can be used to generate billions of predictions for your applications.  You can request predictions for large numbers of data records all at once using the batch prediction API, or use the real-time API to obtain predictions for individual data records, and use them within interactive web, mobile, or desktop applications. 
 Amazon Machine Learning is based on the same proven, highly scalable, ML technology used by Amazon to perform critical functions like supply chain management, fraudulent transaction identification, and catalog organization. 
 Amazon Machine Learning makes it easy to build predictive models that help identify potentially fraudulent retail transactions, or detect fraudulent or inappropriate item reviews. 
 Amazon Machine Learning can help your website provide a more personalized customer experience by using predictive analytics models to recommend items or optimize website flow based on prior customer actions. 
 For example, Amazon Machine Learning could use prior customer activity to choose the most relevant email campaigns for target customers. 
 Amazon Machine Learning can help you process unstructured text and take actions based on content.  For instance, Amazon Machine Learning could be used to build applications that classify product reviews as positive, negative, or neutral. 
 Amazon Machine Learning can help you find customers who are at high risk of attrition, enabling you to proactively engage them with promotions or customer service outreach. 
 Amazon Machine Learning can process free-form feedback from your customers, including email messages, comments or phone conversation transcripts, and recommend actions that can best address their concerns.  For example, you can use Amazon Machine Learning to analyze social media traffic to discover customers who have a product support issue, and connect them with the right customer care specialists. 
 Visit our Careers page or our Developer-specific Careers page to learn more. 
 We pursue research on automated reasoning, adaptation, and the theories and applications of decision making and learning.  Our research goals include learning from data and data mining.  By building software that automatically learns from data, we design applications that have new functions and flexibility.  Our research focuses on using statistical methods for the development of more advanced, intelligent computer systems. 
 Featured research videos . . . 
 Mohammad Raza, Sumit Gulwani, and Natasa Milic-Frayling, Compositional Program Synthesis from Natural Language and Examples, March 2015. 
 Using and improving big data analytics to predict weather, climate change, food security and more. 
 This book provides a single source introduction to the field.  It is written for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, and for developers and researchers in the field.  No prior background in artificial intelligence or statistics is assumed. 
 Feel free to follow me on Twitter at @ellenhuet or send me tips, story ideas and feedback at ehuet [at] forbes. com. 
 Airbnb wants its hosts to set their own prices.  But the home-sharing company, armed with billions of data points, is nevertheless starting to nudge hosts toward prices that earn them — and Airbnb — more money. 
 Price Tips, a feature that the company announced Thursday at its OpenAir conference in San Francisco, is a constantly updating guide that tells hosts, for each day of the year, how likely it is for them to get a booking at the price they’ve currently chosen.  Hosts can glance at a calendar and see what dates are likely to be booked at their current price (green) and which aren’t (red), and they can get price suggestions as well.  When hosts price themselves within 5% of the suggested price, they are “nearly four times” as likely to get a booking as when they don’t, Airbnb said. 
 The price tips are presented in a easy interface laid over a complex process – one that crunches everything from the day of the week to the specific neighborhood of a listing and surfaces patterns between latitude, longitude and key words like “beach, ” two Airbnb employees explained Thursday afternoon at the conference. 
 Before the price tips, hosts received general price suggestions when they added a listing.  And many are savvy enough to know when major events will lead to a spike in demand.  But hosts (and Airbnb, which takes a cut for service fees) might lose money on highs and lows that they aren’t aware of, like underpricing themselves during a huge conference or asking too much — and getting no bookings at all — during the low tourist season. 
 Getting the most out of their listings will likely become more and more important to Airbnb hosts, especially in San Francisco, where city officials are debating a cap on the number of bookings a listing can have per year. 
 Such specific price recommendations — within 5% of Airbnb’s algorithmic result — also blur the line between Airbnb as a marketplace and as a more controlling actor.  Unlike some on-demand marketplace companies like Uber, Lyft and Homejoy, Airbnb has until now stayed away from setting prices for its hosts.  (A potentially smart move, since marketplaces that do control pricing are getting in legal hot water. ) But its price tip feature suggests that Airbnb can’t resist getting a little closer. 
 Airbnb’s price suggestion engine, which took months to develop and pulls on five billion training data points,  has two main components: modeling and machine learning, explained Airbnb data scientist Bar Ifrach at Thursday’s conference.  The model pulls together what Airbnb’s huge data set can reveal about a listing’s best price based on things like its neighborhood and the size of the listing. 
 Any time a city has a big event — in the example, Ifrach pointed to South By Southwest and Austin City Limits — best prices will jump.  In a demand map of San Francisco, neighborhoods like SoMa and the Mission are more likely to be booked than the outer corners of the city (and the Tenderloin, which was the least-likely spot on the whole map). 
 Wi-fi makes a listing in San Francisco more likely to be snapped up, whereas hotter climates will see many fewer bookings if they don’t offer air conditioning — though that also depends on the season.  Sundays are the least likely day of the week to get a booking, and the rate rises slowly throughout the week until Saturday, the most popular day. 
 More surprisingly, the number of reviews can play a huge role in the likelihood of a booking.  A listing with no reviews is seen as uncertain, but just one good review makes it much more likely to be booked.  Beyond that, each review helps a little more, but doesn’t add nearly as much.  Having one three-star (which, despite being the middle of the pack star-wise, is seen as a not-great review at Airbnb, Ifrach said) can hurt a listing. 
 But those are the factors that Airbnb knew to model for.  To find even more relationships between listings and the prices they can command, Airbnb developed Aerosolve, a machine learning package that it released open source on Thursday. 
 With Aerosolve, Airbnb can surface new patterns that it then uses to better understand what makes a listing command a certain price, explained Hector Yee, an Airbnb engineer.  For example, the model highlighted that listings at a certain latitude and longitude were commanding good prices and were often using the word “sabbia. ” Turns out it was Playa del Carmen, a popular beach town in Mexico, and “sabbia” is “sand” in Italian — another piece of information that can Airbnb can relay to local hosts in the form of a price tip. 
 Airbnb hosts “don’t have an army of analysts, ” Ifrach said.  “We’re trying to equip, empower our hosts so they are able to price the listings, get bookings, and do it seamlessly, effectively, so we have more hosts and more stays on Airbnb. ”. 
 Follow me on Twitter at @ellenhuet, find more of my stories on Forbes and send me tips or feedback at ehuet at forbes. com. 
 Called-out comments are highlighted across the Forbes network. 
 6. 867 is an introductory course on machine learning which gives an overview of many concepts, techniques, and algorithms in machine learning, beginning with topics such as classification and linear regression and ending up with more recent topics such as boosting, support vector machines, hidden Markov models, and Bayesian networks.  The course will give the student the basic ideas and intuition behind modern machine learning methods as well as a bit more formal understanding of how, why, and when they work.  The underlying theme in the course is statistical inference as it provides the foundation for most of the methods covered. 
 For more information about using these materials and the Creative Commons license, see our Terms of Use. 
 MIT OpenCourseWare makes the materials used in the teaching of almost all of MIT's subjects available on the Web, free of charge.  With more than 2, 200 courses available, OCW is delivering on the promise of open sharing of knowledge. 
 Your use of the MIT OpenCourseWare site and materials is subject to our Creative Commons License and other terms of use. 
